We already had the basic variable types, like
numbers or text or boolean values. But sometimes
you need a lot of different variables. I have a
very simple example: with an x-variable defined
up here and in the setup-function i generate a
random value that is stored inside that variable.
And then i use it in the draw-function to position
our circle. But let's say we don't only want to
draw one circle, but we want to draw maybe 10
or 100 circles. What we could obviously do,
we could simply generate a lot of more variables
that we individually manually assign values to.
But this would be a lot of writing. For these
specific cases where you actually need a list
of variables or values, we have the so-called
array. An array is simply a list of individual
variables stored in one variable. To define
an array, we can simply use these brackets
and now we have an array, an empty array. There's
nothing in this array inside. To put something
into our array, to push it into the array, it
will be added to the end of the array, there is
the push-function. We can simply write x.push()
and now we can add a new value to our list.
After this, there would be only one value
in our array and now we need to access
our value inside the list and, therefore, we need
to use the index. The index of our individual item
in the list. To do this we put brackets after the
variable name and now we write the index. Arrays
have an index that starts at zero, very important,
not at one. So our first object has the index
zero. This is the way we can access the first
item in our array, in the variable called "x".
If i save this i now have a working sketch again.
Now obviously, we can add more than one item
to our list. So let's write a quick for-loop,
define how many objects we want, we want 100
objects, and now we write a little for-loop
and start at zero and as long as the
counter is smaller than count we add one.
After this setup function is
run, now we have a hundred items
in our x-array. And now we
obviously also need to draw this.
Sometimes you might actually not
know how many items are in your
array. An easy way to figure that one
out is to use x.length. Dot "length"
is the attribute of our array that holds
the current number of objects inside.
And remember again the index starts at
zero. So if i write c smaller x.length,
it works fine, because if i have five items inside
my array and the counter comes to 4 which is the
last item in the array the loop will stop and we
are adding 1 to our counter at the end of the loop
and now we can use the variable c as
our index to retrieve the current value.
And if i save this we now have a
lot of points with random values
and the nice thing about arrays is that we can
store anything inside arrays. We can store text,
we can store numbers, we can also store arrays
inside arrays. Right now we only have this one
value inside our array. So let's actually
push another array into our array here.
Inside this array, we will have two values,
one for x ,one for y. Now we are pushing
another array into the array. And then of
course we need to access them down here.
And now we can simply add another set of brackets
here and now we want the first item in our
nested array and the second item. We use zero and
one. And if i save this now, i now get 100 points
with random values. Arrays are really nice to
store lots of data inside and generate random
data and put them inside. This helps you build
more complex visualizations, more complex designs,
using different kinds of values
that you can store in these lists.